Clarify vouching responsibilities (#40)
scuttlebutt-eu/important-documents: proposal-membership.md

After fulfilling the criteria above, new members are added to a Signal group representing the collective. If members fail to maintain their active status, they are removed from the Signal group at the moment they become Inactive.

### Vouching

When you vouch for another member, it means: "I trust this person and their abilities to participate fruitfully in the collective. I take on the responsibility of introducing the rules and spirit of the collective, and agree to intermediate if they are part of or cause conflicts."

Vouchings are public within the collective but private from non-members. For now, vouching relies on messages on Signal and your memory. Your responsibility in vouching also includes knowing who else vouches for the same person. Participate in the following ways:

>   1. **Add a vouch**: publicly message the other members of the Signal group mentioning who you are vouching for. This is also a good time to celebrate and publicly express the good things about your new vouchee!

Reviewer: why "publicly"? Didn't the paragraph above say that vouching is "private from non-members"?

Reviewer 2: I think it's clear enough from the context that "publicly express etc" means publicly within the consortium

Reviewer: Still confusing IMO

### Vouching Functions

Vouching serves two functions: 
  1. enable active members to invite a new person to become a member of the consortium  
  2. share ongoing appreciation and responsibility for the impact of the vouchee on the rest of the consortium after.
  
When inviting a new member in the consortium, the voucher should ensure that their presence will improve the strengh of the consortium. Voucher are therefore encouraged to assess whether the new member has compatible values, relevant skills, and has sufficient motivation to actively contribute. One way to assess all three at the same time is to review past contributions to the larger SSB project: e.g. tools built with or for SSB, artwork created, volunteering in maintaining the code base or helping with community gardening, etc. Other ways of assessing the member are of course also possible and are left to the discretion of the voucher. 

> After a new member has been accepted in the consortium, vouchers now share an ongoing responsibility towards the impact of that member on the consortium. This has both positive and negative implications. On the positive side, additional existing members may also decide to vouch for the new member: the more vouchers a member gets, the stronger others would like them to stay. The real weight of vouching however manifests when conflicts arise: vouchers then have a responsibility to help defuse and mediate conflicts, if the vouchee cannot or would not resolve them alone. If a voucher cannot or would not hold that responsibility, they should remove their vouching. In effect, vouching means: "I appreciate this person's contributions enough that I am willing to share the emotional burden of ensuring they can keep participating".

Reviewer 3: alternate phrasing for the last sentence, which i mentioned at the end of the meeting we had today

```suggestion
 After a new member has been accepted in the consortium, vouchers now share an ongoing responsibility towards the impact of that member on the consortium. This has both positive and negative implications. On the positive side, additional existing members may also decide to vouch for the new member: the more vouchers a member gets, the stronger others would like them to stay. The real weight of vouching however manifests when conflicts arise: vouchers then have a responsibility to help defuse and mediate conflicts, if the vouchee cannot or would not resolve them alone. If a voucher cannot or would not hold that responsibility, they should remove their vouching. In effect, vouching means:  "I trust this person and their abilities to participate fruitfully in the collective. I take on the responsibility of introducing the rules and spirit of the collective to them, and agree to intermediate if they are part of or cause conflicts."
```

Author: @cblgh I actually replaced those paragraphs with only your sentence. I think it is a great summary and more upbeat in its formulation. See the latest revision to see my attempt in channeling you in being more sensitive and personal.

I will move the rest in the reasoning document.

Reviewer 2: resolved?
